# microRNAs-based-on-K-mer-Distance-Features-
Classification of Precursor microRNAs from Different Species based on K-mer Distance FeaturesClassification 
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short RNA sequences actively involved in post-transcriptional gene regulation. Such miRNAs have been discovered in most eu-karyotic organisms. They also seem to exist in viruses and perhaps in microbial pathogens to target the host. Drosha is the enzyme that first cleaves the pre-miRNA from the nascent pri-miRNA. Previously, we showed that it is possible to distinguish between pre-miRNAs of different species depending on their evo-lutionary distance using just k-mers.  
This study introduces three new sets of features extracted from the precursor sequence and summarizes the distance between k-mers. These new set of fea-tures, named inter k-mer distance, k-mer location distance and k-mer first-last dis-tance, were compared to k-mer and all other published features describing a pre-miRNA. Classification performance above 80% (depending on the evolutionary distance) is possible with a combination of distance and regular k-mer features. 
The novel features specifically aid classification at closer evolutionary distanc-es when compared to k-mers only. K-mer and k-mer distance features together lead to accurate classification for larger evolutionary distances such as Homo sa-piens versus Brassicaceae (93%  AccuracyACC). The novel distance features further increase the average accuracy since they are more effective for lower evo-lutionary distances. Secondary structure-based features were not useful in this study. We hope that this will fuel further analysis of miRNA evolution. Addi-tionally, our approach provides another line of evidence when predicting pre-miRNAs and can be used to ensure that miRNAs detected in NGS samples are indeed not contaminations.
